iOS-res/Applications/MAME4iOS.app/skins/README.md, before:

# MAME4iOS Skins

## Skin format
A `Skin` is just a `zip` file with images used to override the MAME4iOS defaults.

## Skin version 1
Version 1 only lets you change the default images, it **DOES NOT** let you change the size or position of the backgrounds or buttons.

## How to create a `Skin`
* Choose `Export Skin` from the Settings page or File menu, to create a Skin template.
* un-zip template
* modify (or add) images
* **delete** images you did not modify, so MAME4iOS will use the defaults.
* re-zip and give the file a friendly name like "My Cool Skin.zip"
* Choose `Import` or use AirDrop to import `Skin` into MAME4iOS

## Skin files
The following are the images and names, if a Skin is missing an image file a default one will be used.

### Buttons
Name                    | Description
----------------------- | -------------------------------------
button_NotPress_A       | A button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_B       | B button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_Y       | Y button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_X       | X button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_L1      | L1 button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_L2      | L2 button in the *up* state
button_Press_A          | A button in the *down* state
button_Press_B          | B button in the *down* state
button_Press_Y          | Y button in the *down* state
button_Press_X          | X button in the *down* state
button_Press_L1         | L1 button in the *down* state
button_Press_L2         | L2 button in the *down* state
button_NotPress_start   | START button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_select  | SELECT button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_exit    | EXIT button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_option  | OPTION button in the *up* state
button_Press_start      | START button in the *down* state
button_Press_select     | SELECT button in the *down* state
button_Press_exit       | EXIT button in the *down* state
button_Press_option     | OPTION button in the *down* state

### Backgrounds
Name                        | Description
--------------------------- | -------------------------------------
background_landscape        | background image, landscape iPad
background_landscape_wide   | background image, landscape iPhone
background_portrait         | background image, portrait iPad
background_portrait_tall    | background image, portrait iPhone

### Joystick and DPAD
Name                        | Description
--------------------------- | -------------------------------------
stick-inner                 | image of the joystick ball
stick-outer                 | background image of the joystick when fullscreen
stick-background            | background image of the joystick 
stick-background-landscape  | background image of the joystick
DPad_NotPressed             | image of the DPAD
DPad_U                      | image of the DPAD UP
DPad_D                      | image of the DPAD DOWN
DPad_L                      | image of the DPAD LEFT
DPad_R                      | image of the DPAD RIGHT
DPad_UL                     | image of the DPAD UP LEFT
DPad_DL                     | image of the DPAD DOWN LEFT
DPad_DR                     | image of the DPAD DOWN RIGHT
DPad_UR                     | image of the DPAD UP RIGHT

## Skin optional files
The following files are used if present, there is no default.

Name                    | Description
----------------------- | -------------------------------------
background              | background of the whole app, tiled image
border                  | border image, drawn around the game screen.
stick-U                 | image of the joystick ball UP
stick-D                 | image of the joystick ball DOWN
stick-L                 | image of the joystick ball LEFT
stick-R                 | image of the joystick ball RIGHT
stick-UL                | image of the joystick ball UP LEFT
stick-DL                | image of the joystick ball DOWN LEFT
stick-DR                | image of the joystick ball DOWN RIGHT
stick-UR                | image of the joystick ball UP RIGHT

Commit message:

Factory reset: remove all Skins and Custom Button Layout.

iOS-res/Applications/MAME4iOS.app/skins/README.md, after:

# MAME4iOS Skins

## Skin format
A `Skin` is just a `zip` file with images used to override the MAME4iOS defaults.

## Skin names
The file name of the Skin is used as the display name in the select UI.
Skins named with the ROMNAME, PARENT, or DRIVER of the currenly running game will be automaticaly selected.

## Skin version 1
Version 1 only lets you change the default images, it **DOES NOT** let you change the size or position of the backgrounds or buttons.

## How to create a `Skin`
* Choose `Export Skin` from the Settings page or File menu, to create a Skin template.
* un-zip template
* modify (or add) images
* **delete** images you did not modify, so MAME4iOS will use the defaults.
* re-zip and give the file a friendly name like "My Cool Skin.zip"
* Choose `Import` or use AirDrop to import `Skin` into MAME4iOS

## Skin location
Custom Skins are stored in the `skins` folder.

## Skin files
The following are the images and names, if a Skin is missing an image file a default one will be used.

### Buttons
Name                    | Description
----------------------- | -------------------------------------
button_NotPress_A       | A button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_B       | B button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_Y       | Y button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_X       | X button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_L1      | L1 button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_L2      | L2 button in the *up* state
button_Press_A          | A button in the *down* state
button_Press_B          | B button in the *down* state
button_Press_Y          | Y button in the *down* state
button_Press_X          | X button in the *down* state
button_Press_L1         | L1 button in the *down* state
button_Press_L2         | L2 button in the *down* state
button_NotPress_start   | START button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_select  | SELECT button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_exit    | EXIT button in the *up* state
button_NotPress_option  | OPTION button in the *up* state
button_Press_start      | START button in the *down* state
button_Press_select     | SELECT button in the *down* state
button_Press_exit       | EXIT button in the *down* state
button_Press_option     | OPTION button in the *down* state

### Backgrounds
Name                        | Description
--------------------------- | -------------------------------------
background_landscape        | background image, landscape iPad
background_landscape_wide   | background image, landscape iPhone
background_portrait         | background image, portrait iPad
background_portrait_tall    | background image, portrait iPhone

### Joystick and DPAD
Name                        | Description
--------------------------- | -------------------------------------
stick-inner                 | image of the joystick ball
stick-outer                 | background image of the joystick when fullscreen
stick-background            | background image of the joystick 
stick-background-landscape  | background image of the joystick
DPad_NotPressed             | image of the DPAD
DPad_U                      | image of the DPAD UP
DPad_D                      | image of the DPAD DOWN
DPad_L                      | image of the DPAD LEFT
DPad_R                      | image of the DPAD RIGHT
DPad_UL                     | image of the DPAD UP LEFT
DPad_DL                     | image of the DPAD DOWN LEFT
DPad_DR                     | image of the DPAD DOWN RIGHT
DPad_UR                     | image of the DPAD UP RIGHT

## Skin optional files
The following files are used if present, there is no default.

Name                    | Description
----------------------- | -------------------------------------
background              | background of the whole app, tiled image
border                  | border image, drawn around the game screen.
stick-U                 | image of the joystick ball UP
stick-D                 | image of the joystick ball DOWN
stick-L                 | image of the joystick ball LEFT
stick-R                 | image of the joystick ball RIGHT
stick-UL                | image of the joystick ball UP LEFT
stick-DL                | image of the joystick ball DOWN LEFT
stick-DR                | image of the joystick ball DOWN RIGHT
stick-UR                | image of the joystick ball UP RIGHT
